Hi.
We didn't this lecture we gonna make our calculators safe.
And later on we're going to focus on a subject called scope which is very important in first.
So we're going to see you out of this in just a few minutes.
So first of all let me start by just solving this problem that we have wi fi.
First I read this.
This will be irregular in so I can just some of them together but it crashes my application then user
gives me a bad input.
So how do I go for that.
If I just delete this for zone wrap think then it will give me an error.
So of course I'm going to go with this if that's OK.
So we have seen this.
What does it mean if you can convert this first text that text into an integer then cast this to a variable
called first number assign this to the variable called first number so I can work with this first number
then I'm going to do that for second number as well inside of this if I'm going to delete the Second
Optional first I'm wrapping sorry over here and as you can see I have and if control and inside of this
I have another if control.
So that's OK I can have as many as I want so if statements can be layered as this.
So first if statement if this works then I'm going to check for the second one and if that works I'm
going to do what I am going to do.
OK.
So this will check to convert first text that text into an integer.
And if that succeeds it's going to do the second one and then I can say first number plus second number
and as you can see first number and second number is not optional anymore.
So I can go for the result labeled that text is string representation of the result itself.
So let's try this way and let's see if that works for us.
So the user will come over here let's see first.
3 to 2 they will see 5.
So this works.
So we didn't break it I think.
So let's try Apple and hit plus.
And as you can see this doesn't give me a crash.
And of course you can have an L statement over here and you can say result labeled dot text.
Bring me a number give me a number.
Don't give me any string.
Don't give me any tax don't write Apple here.
So you can display a message to user in a way like that but this is perfect for right now.
This is what I have been looking for.
So this works and the rest is pretty much to say we are going to actually copy all of this and place
them into the other functions as well.
So I'm going to copy all of this with common C and with command V I'm going to pass it over here and
say minus rather than plus I'm going to do the same thing here with multiply and then over here we divide
sign.
So here you go.
We actually made our first calculator.
So let's go and test this.
Of course I how casted everything as integers.
Maybe we can do it with doubles or something but right now this works in a way that we want.
We don't have to make this complicated because we're building diverse calculate forever right.
So that's OK.
But since we're here let me tell you one of the most important concepts in swift in this lecture so
we're going to be talking about scope.
So what does it mean.
So let me tidy up here a little bit.
OK so we can see better.
I'm going to write some quotes over here as well because I'm going to work on scope and by scope I mean
the scope of the variables.
So here I am defining some first numbers take a number and everything's in some clicked function and
doing the same in minus clicked and I can have as many functions as I want in here right.
I have this we did load I had this some clicked I have this minus clicked and I have these variables
over here so what if I want to create a variable inside of one function and can I reach.
That's very well inside of another function.
So for example in we did load what was we did load again.
So this is the first thing happens when the app is low that's when users seize the app.
But they were I right here gets executed.
That's right.
So we don't need that in this application so it stays empty.
But we need our we don't need anything to happen when the first app lunches.
We need something to happen when user clicks on some buttons.
So we have written our codes inside of button actions.
But for example let me create a variable inside of this we've did load.
So I have a number or here I can change its value.
Okay.
1 2 through for example and this is perfectly okay.
I have created this.
I have changed its value.
I can do whatever I want to do with this I can make my result labeled up text equal to string my number
for example or I can just print this.
And that's perfectly OK.
This will work.
But what happens if I want to change did my numbers value inside of my sum clicked function.
Can I do that.
I cannot do that actually.
And this will give me an error as soon as you can see it says that this is our result envoys it's our
result because it's not in the scope of some clicked function it's in the scope of with the load.
So we have created this variable inside of wildfire.
Jim we cannot call that variable in any other function.
OK so I cannot do that and this first number in here is completely different than this first number
in here.
So these are two different variables over here.
OK I can just call them same I can just call them different names.
It doesn't matter because they're completely different variables anyway.
So if I create a variable in the sum collect I cannot change that in the minus clicked.
And is there a way to create a variable.
I reach this variable in all functions why I cannot do that.
Of course there is a way to do that.
And in fact we're doing that right now.
Right.
We have this class and we haven't seen other classes.
We will see in a separate section in a detailed section.
But as you can see this class has some different functions different variables inside of it.
So this should be something important and we're doing everything inside of our class.
So I have defined this first tax second tax end result label under my class but they are not even inside
of a function right now.
So if I come under my some clicks I can call them if I come under my minus clicked I can call them.
So these variables are actually in the class level right.
These are not in functions.
And in fact we couldn't drag and drop these views into the functions as you might remember we couldn't
drop them inside.
We did load.
We have to make sure that they are defined inside of the class.
So you find do the same thing.
I can't create this number for example in here and I can't reach that number inside of every function
that I have.
So I can create the results in here with zero initial value then I can call these results anywhere I
want.
Right.
I can called is under the load.
So as you can see no I can change this result value.
So I how defined and initialized is under my class.
Then I can call this value and I can change its value from wherever I want.
So rather than creating a new result over here I can just a sign my results first number plus second
number.
OK.
So this is going to be this as you can see if I click on it it will be highlighted.
So this refers again to this variable over here.
So we're using the same results in my class in my sum clicked function everywhere.
So we're using the same variable we can do that under other functions as well.
So that I can reach and use the same variable my old functions it is much more efficient to do this
in this way.
Okay.
Rather than creating new result variables and it works like this.
When I type results it first looks.
If I created the result inside of this function.
Okay.
If there is a result variable that I have previously created here then it works with that variable.
If it cannot find a result it looks over here.
So if there is another variable in class and if it cannot find it actually looks outside of the class
as well so I can create a variable outside of my class as well.
And this is called global variable.
Where we going to work with these global variables later on but we generally do not prefer to do this
very much in our applications because it's not very safe we can easily make a mistake or here but this
is valid as well.
If it cannot find the result the inside of the function inside of the class it can look to find the
result outside of the class as well and if it cannot find outside of the class it's actually what looks
for predefined values like let var.
So is Derrick keyword or is there a predefined swift value in here.
And if it doesn't find anything it gives me an hour result.
Identify your error.
Okay it works like this.
So make sure you create your variables inside of your functional inside of your class or even outside
of your class whenever or wherever you may want to create.
So decide the optimal place in your own case.
We go to see a lot of examples regarding to this.
I'm just explaining how it works right now.
Don't worry about that.
So as you can see this works.
And if I divide to buy treat gives me zero because this is an integer but the I just divide or some
does Apple with treats doesn't crash.
So that's important right now.
And we have completed our first stop.
So congratulations.
And following the next section we're going to work with the layouts a little bit more and then we're
going to start working on real apps real examples.